add troubleshoot doc for TiCDC (#2615)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/troubleshoot-ticdc.md

---
title: Common Problems and Troubleshooting
summary: Fix common problems while using TiCDC.
category: reference
---

# Common Problems and Troubleshooting

> This document includes some common problems that you might have while using TiCDC and provides appropriate solutions. It also summarizes some common operation failures and ways to fix them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document includes some common problems that you might have while using TiCDC and provides appropriate solutions. It also summarizes some common operation failures and ways to fix them.
```

> This document includes some common problems that you might have while using TiCDC and provides appropriate solutions. It also summarizes some common operation failures and ways to fix them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document includes some common problems that you might have while using TiCDC and provides appropriate solutions. It also summarizes some common operation problems and ways to fix them.
```

## How to choose start-ts while starting a task

First, you need to know that the `start-ts` of a replication task corresponds to a TSO of the upstream TiDB cluster. The replication task will start its data request from this TSO. Therefore, the `start-ts` should meet two conditions below:

> - The value of `start-ts` must be larger than current `tikv_gc_safe_point`, otherwise, an error would occur when creating the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The value of `start-ts` must be larger than current `tikv_gc_safe_point` value. Otherwise, an error will occurs when you create a task.
```

- While starting a task, you need to ensure that the downstream has already got all the data previous to `start-ts`. You can relax this requirement accordingly, if the replication task is for message queue or other scenarios, in which strict data consistency between upstream and downstream is not strictly required.

> If `start-ts` is not specified or specified as `0`, when a replication task gets started, TiCDC will get the current TSO from PD and start to replicate data from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `start-ts` is not specified or specified as `0`, when a replication task is started, TiCDC will get the current TSO from PD and start to replicate data from this TSO.
```

## When a task gets started, it prompts that some tables cannot be replicated

> When you use `cdc cli changefeed create` to create a replication task, TiCDC will check if the upstream tables comply with the [restrictions](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md#restrictions). If they don't, TiCDC will prompt that `some tables are not eligible to replicate`, and will list out the ineligible tables. If you choose `Y` or `y`, TiCDC will continue creating the replication task and automatically ignore all the updates of these ineligible tables. If you choose other inputs, the replication task will not be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you execute `cdc cli changefeed create` to create a replication task, TiCDC will check whether the upstream tables meet the [restrictions](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md#restrictions). If not, TiCDC will prompt that `some tables are not eligible to replicate`, and will list out the ineligible tables. If you choose `Y` or `y`, TiCDC will continue creating the replication task and automatically ignore all the updates of these ineligible tables. If you choose other inputs, the replication task will not be created.
```

---
title: Common Problems and Troubleshooting
summary: Fix common problems while using TiCDC.
category: reference

> aliases: ['/docs/dev/reference/tools/ticdc/troubleshoot-ticdc/']

Reviewer 2: `aliases` is for redirecting a previous link and does not apply to a newly added file.
```suggestion
```

Author: `aliases` removed

---

# Common Problems and Troubleshooting

> This document includes some common problems while using TiCDC and appropriate solutions. It also summarizes some common operation failures and ways to fix them.

Reviewer 2: Adverbial clauses can omit the subject (and the be verb) only if the subject of the dependent (the adverbial clause) is the same as that of the independent clause. I see multiple similar issues in this PR.

Author: Thanks for your review. I have added possible subjects (not 100% sure). The subject seemed vague to me in some original sentences, because I didn't get the whole picture of TiCDC.

## How to choose start-ts while starting a task

> First, you should know that the `start-ts` of a replication task corresponds to a TSO of the upstream TiDB cluster. The replication task will start its data request from this TSO. Therefore, the `start-ts` should meet two conditions below:

Reviewer 2: Limit the use of `should` in user documentation.

Author: I found that `should` (111 times), `need(s) to` (125 times) and `must` (118 times) are almost equally used in current TiDB docs and their links, but `should` seldom goes with `user` or `you` . So, I changed some of `should` to `need to` or `must`.

- The value of `start-ts` should be larger than current `tikv_gc_safe_point`, otherwise, an error would occur when creating the task.
- While starting the task, you should ensure that the downstream has already got all the data previous to `start-ts`. You can relax this requirement accordingly, if the replication task is for message queue or other scenarios, in which strict data consistency between upstream and downstream is not strictly required.

> If `start-ts` is not specified or specified 0 `start-ts=0`, when the task gets started, it will get the current TSO from PD and start to replicate data from it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `start-ts` is not specified or specified as `0`, when a replication task gets started, TiCDC will get the current TSO from PD and start to replicate data from it.
```

Author: This change gives me a hint of what should be the subject. Thanks

## When a task gets started, it prompts that some tables cannot be replicated

> When using `cdc cli changefeed create` to create a replication task, it will check if the upstream tables comply with the [restrictions](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md#restrictions). If not, it will prompt that `some tables are not eligible to replicate` and list out the ineligible tables. If you choose `Y` or `y`, you will continue creating the replication task and automatically ignore all the updates of these ineligible tables. If you choose other inputs, the replication task will not be created.

Reviewer 2: Ditto.

Author: I made subjects clearer.
